the US has had a lot of experience in
building floating causeways the Trident
Pier has been built off several coasts
including that of South Korea and the
UAE the facility of Gaza will take
around 2 months to build as far as time
frame as I mentioned several weeks uh
likely up to 60 days in order to deploy
the forces uh and uh construct the uh
the causeway and the and the
pier in recent days the US and some
other countries have put in place an
airdrop operation of supplies into Gaza
this resulting in a tragedy on Friday
when a parachute did not open properly
killing at least five people and
injuring a number more highlighting the
criticism that airdrop operations and
Maritime peers are a measure of Last
Resort are expensive and ineffective and
run the risk of creating Chaos on the
ground the measures in this case say a
United Nations expert appear to be more
for domestic political benefit than real
humanitarian relief
this my best educated guess
is probably a performance to try and
meet uh a domestic audience with
elections around the corner a temporary
peer will enable a massive increase in
the amount of humanitarian assistance
getting into Gaza every day the fact
that President Biden announced the new
measure in his State of the Union speech
one normally centered on domestic issues
adds fuel to the claim of political
cynicism these us measures could also
serve to prop up the nearly two decade
long Israeli blockade of Gaza another
consequence of the Biden
administration's apparent reluctance to
fully confront the Netanyahu government
and its unbridled War the United States
needs to use other tools uh in our
toolbox to not just insist but to say if
you continue to ignore us if you
continue to rebuff these requests there
will be
consequences the purported US intention
to help the people of Gaza could have
the opposite effect in reality it could
bolster and effectively endorse the
illegal Israeli
blockade Mike Hannah Al jazer Washington